===================================================================
                     MMBase 1.8.0 - Installation
===================================================================  
  
MMBase is distributed as a webapplication, it's not packaged as a .war
file, but the structure is the same. In order to install and get
MMBase running, you must do the following:

1. Download and install a Java Development Kit (j2sdk-1.4.x or newer).

2. Download and install a Servlet Engine or an Applicationserver
   (check if the Servlet Engine is up and running and if you can use
   the jsp-examples), see releasenotes for tested Servlet Engines.
   On default  the distro nees web-app 2.4. If the application server does not  support that
   (e.g. Tomcat 4). then you need to replace web.xml with web-2.3.xml and mmbase-taglib-2.jar with
   mmbase-taglib.jar.
   Probably also jstl.jar and standard.jar need to be removed or replaced with earlier versions.

3. Download and install ImageMagick. See note below if you're having
   problems with Imagemagick or don't want to use it.

4. Copy the subdir mmbase-webapp into the servlet-engine's webapps
   dir, or point to it in a configuration file (e.g. server.xml of tomcat).

5. If ImageMagick's convert isn't in your path, edit
   <mmbase-webapp/WEB-INF/config/applications/Resources/builders/images.xml>
   (if you haven't installed the Resources application) or 
   <mmbase-webapp/WEB-INF/config/builders/applications/builders/images.xml>
   (if you already installed the Resources applications) for the
   location of this tool.
   
6. Start servlet-engine if you want to use the default MMBase-config
   (uses a hsqldb-database), or goto step 9 for changing default
   configuration. 

7. Check if mmbase is running using the following url:
   <http://localhost:port/mmbase-webapp/version> 

8. If this is running, goto <http://localhost:port/mmbase-webapp/> to
   see an infopage about MMBase and links to editors, admin, examples,
   etc. Use admin/admin2k when you're asked to login (see notes below
   how to change this).

9. Edit jdbc.xml a(in <mmbase-webapp/WEB-INF/config/modules>) for using a different database (see
   releasenotes for tested databases). If the database is explicitely mentioned in mmbaseroot.xml
   you should also change that.
   
    Other interesting settings can be found in
   <mmbase-webapp/WEB-INF/config/security/context/config.xml> (users, groups, and contextes), and in
   <mmbase-webapp/WEB-INF/config/log/log4j.xml> (logfile configuration and so on).

10. You may want to replace the security implementation by e.g. cloud context security. Remove
     the entire config/security and place mmbase-cloudcontextsecurity.jar in WEB-INF/lib to do that.

11. For more information about installation en configuration see:
    <http://localhost:8080/mmbase-webapp/mmdocs/administrators/install-tomcat.html>
    <http://localhost:8080/mmbase-webapp/mmdocs/administrators/configuration.html>

12. If you have any kind of problem goto:
    website: <http://www.mmbase.org/>
    irc: #mmbase at slashnet


Some final notes:
=================

SECURITY ISSUES:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Check out the <mmbase-webapp/WEB-INF/config/security> dir, to
customize the security settings. You _SHOULD CHANGE THE ADMIN
PASSWORD_, and also the other passwords, if your setup is more then
just a try-out.

If you are not going to use MMBase security, you should not leave
jsp-editors and admin pages unprotected (by e.g. tomcat or apache
security). Remove them altogether if unsure (the /mmbase/edit/ and
/mmbase/admin directories).

The same goes for editwizards if you are going to install those.

The shipped mmexamples directory is DANGEROUS and you should NOT leave
it in a production site. It contains for the sake of _examples_
various editors and e.g. a generic jsp to show the source code of
other jsp's. Generally, for a production site, it is best to remove
all jsp's which are shipped with this distro, besides the ones you are
planning to actually use. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------


ImageMagick:
Imagemagick does work with Windows 98/ME, but MMBase is not able to
use it. You have to use Jai (Java Advanced Imaging API). You can do
this by changing the properties in
<mmbase-webapp/WEB-INF/config/builders/applications/images.xml> (if
you've already installed the Resources application) or 
<mmbase-webapp/WEB-INF/config/applications/Resources/builders/images.xml>
(if you haven't installed the Resources applications) into:

<properties> 
  <property name="ImageConvertClass">org.mmbase.module.builders.ConvertJAI</property> 
  <property name="MaxConcurrentRequests">20</property> 
</properties>

Please keep in mind that the image builder is less powerfull when
using JAI instead of Imagemagick.
